I'm Steve Barsotti and I'm a
paleontologist who studies dinosaurs
there's just something about dinosaurs
there's some magic to them now some
indescribable essence to them when I was
in high school I began to drag my family
along to every Natural History Museum
that we could find
I found local fossil sites where I went
out to collect fossils and I read as
much as I could and that was when
walking with dinosaurs the original
series was shown in the United States
where I grew up I remember the wonder
that I felt looking at dinosaurs on the
screen that were moving and feeding and
breathing this was like watching
dinosaurs in nature and that show was
one of the major inspirations to me as I
carved out a career in paleontology we
usually spend a couple months of the
year out in the field trying to discover
new fossils because new fossils are the
currency of paleontology we need new
specimens to continue to learn new
things about dinosaurs and other ancient
organisms when we go out into the field
every field trip is different sometimes
you're out in the middle of desert or
you're in the mountains
other times you're working in a rock
outcrop behind a Walmart there's never
any guarantee that we're gonna find
anything there's never any guarantee the
weather is gonna be good when we go
abroad there's never any guarantee that
our passports aren't gonna be seized and
held up for a couple of days you can
never really predict what's going to
happen in the field so that that
possibility of always finding something
new is what drives us the moment of
discovery is a pretty incredible moment
especially if you found something really
good
you found something new if you found a
fossil in an area where one hasn't been
found before and it's hard to describe
that moment it's one of those feelings
like you know how do you describe love
so it's a really cool thing and it's
that feeling is one of the things that
always drives us to go out and explore
somewhere new
besides going out and finding news
fossils we spend a lot of time traveling
to museums studying fossils that are
already in museum collections we spend a
lot of time writing about fossils
writing up scientific papers so we can
describe our findings to our colleagues
doing art work doing photography we
spend a lot of time talking to the
public going into schools giving talks
some of us write books and and write
general articles for the public so every
day is very different there's a lot of
components to our job you know every day
I get up and there's a possibility that
I can discover something new about the
world every day I handle 100 million
year old dinosaur bones I get to travel
around the world to try to find new
fossils so for me that combination of
discovery and creativity is just
unparalleled and I can't think of doing
anything else
the question about what my favorite
dinosaur is I think I get asked this
every time I go into a school and talk
to kids and it's probably the hardest
question for me to actually answer
however I do have one that maybe inches
ahead a little bit there's an incredible
dinosaur that I had the privilege to
work on from Romania and it's like
Velociraptor but even scarier even
deadlier it had two sets of killer claws
on its feet so this was like a killer
poodle basically they're about the size
of poodles so and just an incredible
animal to even imagine
[Music]
one of the really interesting things
that we're studying now is the rise of
dinosaurs why the dinosaurs become
successful to begin with so what we're
doing is we're doing field work to try
to find new fossils from the oldest
dinosaurs and we're using new
statistical techniques to better
understand the evolution of the oldest
dinosaurs so my ambitions are to spend
the rest of my career the next 40 or 50
years to continuing just pushing the
boundaries finding new fossils and
trying to better understand the
evolution of these groups what dinosaurs
and other groups tell us about evolution
and about how the earth has changed over
time in concert with drifting continents
and concert with changing climates and
these are big questions and pertinent
questions as we grapple today with how
our own world is changing
so this is an unparalleled opportunity
to bring science to the public to teach
the public about evolution about climate
change about how the earth has changed
over time so I think it's one of the
fundamental jobs of any paleontologists
especially those of us lucky enough to
work on dinosaurs to bring this
information to people and whatever I
tell kids when I go into schools and
give talks is to never stop exploring to
never stop asking questions to never
stop reading especially about the latest
discoveries if you're passionate about
it go for it
maybe you can make a career out of it
maybe not but it's great to have a
passion about something
[Music]
you